# Development Testing

Having chosen an agile development strategy, we will need to provide testing functionality fitted to the architecture devised in the previous section. The system is comprised of a server and a database. The server will have three major elements: controller, view and model.

The structure of the software will be developed using Spring for the back end and Thymeleaf for the front end, therefore we have to use testing frameworks that will integrate with the software design constraints.

For the server we will provide unit and integration testing. For unit testing and mocking we will use JUnit and Mockito. For integration testing, we will use Spring test classes.

For the front end of the website we will use the Selenium framework for testing in order to validate the HTML structure. The GUI component will be tested by sending visual mockups to the clients in order to get feedback regarding the visual appeal and integration with the look and feel of the “Global Beer Shop” company.

To facilitate the development process, the tests will have to be described before the coding sprint starts. One of the core components of the e-commerce website is the shopping cart, the object providing functionality for storing the beers selected from the catalogue to be bought. It will undertake both blackbox and whitebox testing, as will the whole project structure, in order to identify as many design flaws as possible. The tests will be implemented using the JUnit framework. 

The "shopping cart" object will play a fundamental role for a customer to place an order on the website, thus it will need to be fully and comprehensively tested. The table below illustrates tests for the functionality of the "shopping cart" component:   
 

  
 Test ID       | Description          | Input        | Output 
 :---: | --- | --- | --- 
**Sum Order Total** | The "shopping cart" will calculate the total price of the beers included in the order summary.  | List of beer items with a "name", "number of items" and "price" field; example input 1: ([("Heineken", 2, 5), ("Fosters", 1, 5)]); example input 2: ([ ]) | Sum of the values stored in the "price" field; example output 1: 15, example output 2: 0
**Add item to shopping cart** | Whenever the website user adds one or more items to the shopping cart, the list of items in the order summary has to be updated to contain the new item | List of beer items and a mock item containing a field called "number of items" ; example input 1: ([ ] , ("Heineken", 2, 5)), example input 2: ([("Heineken", 2, 5)] , ("Heineken", 2, 5)), example input 2: ([("Heineken", 2, 5)], ("Fosters", 1, 5))  | The same list of items as the one used as an input value, having exactly the number of mock items specified in the input added to it; example output 1: [("Heineken, 2, 5)], example output 2: [("Heineken, 4, 5)], example output 3: [("Heineken, 2, 5), ("Fosters", 1, 5)]
**Remove item from shopping cart** | When the user of the website removes one or more beer items from the shopping cart the list of beers in the order summary has to be updated having the selected items removed, and the total order price has to be updated by decreasing the removed items' price | List of beer items, a mock item having a name, number of items and price fields to be removed; example input 1: ([("Heineken", 1, 5)], ("Heineken", 1, 5)), example input 2: ([("Heineken", 1, 5)], ("Heineken", 1, 4)), example input 3: ([("Heineken", 1, 5)], ("Fosters", 1, 5)), example input 4: ([("Heineken", 1, 5)], ("Heineken", 2, 5)), example input 5: ([("Heineken", 2, 5), ("Fosters", 1, 5)], ("Heineken", 1, 5)) | List of beer items having the exact number of mock items removed, or throw an error if the function is called with invalid parameters (such as removing a beer from a list in which the mock item appears less times than the number in the input value, or removing an item from a list in which it does not appear); example output 1: [ ], example output 2: error(), example output 3: error(), example output 4: error(), example output 5: [("Heineken", 1, 5), ("Fosters", 1, 5)]
**Remove all elements from shopping cart** | Clear the list of products in the shopping cart using the clearCart() method. | List of mock products in the shopping cart. | The list in the shopping cart needs to be empty. 
**Add beers only if in stock** | Add a product to the shopping cart only if the lookup in the database stock returns a positive integer. | Initial list of products, mock product and a mock value (positive, 0 and negative) that simulates the value returned by the database query lookup.| The list of products containing the mock product only if the value inputted is positive and the product is not added to the list if the value is 0 or negative. 
**Shopping cart should be empty after the expiry date** | The list of products in the shopping cart needs to be cleared if the session expires. | Mock list of products in the shopping cart and a value simulating the return value of querying the session timer. | The exact same list of products if the mock timer value is less than 1 hour; otherwise the output expected is an empty list 
